# Switching to Podman Desktop

Podman Desktop is not new. I have tried it out a couple of years back when I was looking at alternatives to Docker Desktop. At the time I wasn't able to make compose work. Currently, a quick search over the internet solutions shows we can now consider the use case.

This week I spent some time on trying to switch over. If you don't have an interest in the nitty gritty details, this is the TLDR; :

- Podman Desktop evolved and is much better now.
- I managed to make compose work, but not immediately and it is still not 100% clear to me how I made it work :)
- I have also installed:
  - [Openshift Local](https://developers.redhat.com/products/openshift-local/overview), because I have noticed the OpenShift extension, current customers are using it and in the current contexts the great majority of my peers are using OpenShift 
  - [Rancher Desktop](https://rancherdesktop.io/), because it is the tool I am switching from, offering acceptable solutions for the use cases at hand
- I haven't been able to make devcontainers work. I have reported the experience to the podman team [here](https://github.com/containers/podman/issues/20379#issuecomment-2722314956)

The conclusion is that I will continue with Rancher Desktop for the moment, but keep an eye on Podman Desktop and continue to try and drive tickets if necessary. I will attempt to repro the compose related use cases with Podman and insist with the developers to resolve the devcontainer use cases.
Podman desktop is thus near enough to be considered when working with the artifacts I am publishing.

Regarding more general pros and cons, I appreciate Podman desktop for it's better flexibility to work with providers and extensions. While Rancher Desktop hardwires the WSL distro, Podman Desktop allows for some degree of management of the VMs. I still appreciate Rancher Desktop for it's good coverage of docker compose and devcontainers coverage and for the fact it comes with container images vulnerability scanning out of the box, feature that I haven't found with Podman Desktop.

## The details

Are you interested to look at the nitty gritty details? Let me know in the [related discussion](https://github.com/ibmmi/blog/discussions/2)
